readme.md, before:

# pathfinder2-updater

The pathfinder2-updater is a service that queries the Circles trust graph and balances from an index db and sends a binary
dump of that data to the pathfinder2 instance whenever a new block is indexed.

![Sequence diagram](sequence.png "Sequence diagram")

## Requirements

* To use the pathfinder with v1 events you need to have a
  running [blockchain-indexer](https://github.com/CirclesUBI/blockchain-indexer) instance with corresponding index db.
* To use the pathfinder with v2 events you need to have a Nethermind node
  with [circles-nethermind-plugin](https://github.com/CirclesUBI/circles-nethermind-plugin) installed and corresponding
  index db.

_In every case you need to have a [blockchain-indexer](https://github.com/CirclesUBI/blockchain-indexer) instance for
the updater to subscribe to new block events (its used merely as a trigger, the actual data is queried from the
indexer db). This is about to change in newer versions._

## Quickstart

The repository contains a docker-compose file that starts a pathfinder2 instance and the pathfinder2-updater.
It requires a connection string to a postgres db that contains the indexer data.

### Configure

Change the contents of the `.env` file in the root of the repository to your needs.
Also specify the version of the circles implementation you want to use.

```
# Which Cirlces version to use (v1 or v2)
CIRCLES_VERSION=v2

# The connection string to the blokchain-indexer db (v1) or the nethermind plugin db (v2)
INDEXER_DB_CONNECTION_STRING="Server=localhost;Port=5432;Database=postgres;User Id=postgres;Password=postgres;"

# The websocket url of the blokchain-indexer (v1). Used solely as trigger for the updater (on new block).
INDEXER_WS_URL=wss://rpc.helsinki.aboutcircles.com/indexer

# The path used by the updater to write the binary dump
INTERNAL_CAPACITY_GRAPH_PATH=/pathfinder-db/db.bin

# The path used by the pathfinder2 to read the binary dump (used in the load_safes_binary rpc call)
EXTERNAL_CAPACITY_GRAPH_PATH=/pathfinder-db/db.bin

# The url of the pathfinder2 instance
PATHFINDER_RPC_URL=http://localhost:8080
```

_Note: The internal and external paths are used to share the binary dump between the two services.
Each service can have the pathfinder-db volume mounted to a different location so its necessary to specify
the path used by the updater and the path used by the pathfinder2. In this example they are mounted to the same
locations._

### Start the environment

On first start, it pulls the pathfinder2 image and builds the pathfinder2-updater image.

```shell
docker-compose up
```

### Use as command line utility

Alternatively, you can use the updater as a command line utility.
This allows you to dump the index db data to a file and load it into the pathfinder2 instance manually.

```shell
CirclesUBI.PathfinderUpdater.ExportUtil.exe \
  "/home/user/pathfinder-db.bin" \
  "Server=localhost;Port=5432;Database=postgres;User Id=postgres;Password=postgres;" \
  "v2"
```

The first argument is the output path for the binary dump file, the second argument is the connection string to the
index db and the third argument is the Circles version.

You can then use the resulting file to initialize a pathfinder2 instance:

```shell
curl -X POST \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "id": "timestamp_value",
    "method": "load_safes_binary",
    "params": {
        "file": "/home/user/pathfinder-db.bin"
    }
}' \
  "http://<ip>:<port>"
```

## File format
The binary file format is described in the [Pathfinder Reloaded](https://hackmd.io/Gg04t7gjQKeDW2Q6Jchp0Q#load_safes_binaryfile-ltpathgt) document.

Commit message:

Add dockerfile for the export util

readme.md, after:

# pathfinder2-updater

The pathfinder2-updater is a service that queries the Circles trust graph and balances from an index db and sends a binary
dump of that data to the pathfinder2 instance whenever a new block is indexed.

![Sequence diagram](sequence.png "Sequence diagram")

## Requirements

* To use the pathfinder with v1 events you need to have a
  running [blockchain-indexer](https://github.com/CirclesUBI/blockchain-indexer) instance with corresponding index db.
* To use the pathfinder with v2 events you need to have a Nethermind node
  with [circles-nethermind-plugin](https://github.com/CirclesUBI/circles-nethermind-plugin) installed and corresponding
  index db.

_In every case you need to have a [blockchain-indexer](https://github.com/CirclesUBI/blockchain-indexer) instance for
the updater to subscribe to new block events (its used merely as a trigger, the actual data is queried from the
indexer db). This is about to change in newer versions._

## Quickstart

The repository contains a docker-compose file that starts a pathfinder2 instance and the pathfinder2-updater.
It requires a connection string to a postgres db that contains the indexer data.

### Configure

Change the contents of the `.env` file in the root of the repository to your needs.
Also specify the version of the circles implementation you want to use.

```
# Which Cirlces version to use (v1 or v2)
CIRCLES_VERSION=v2

# The connection string to the blokchain-indexer db (v1) or the nethermind plugin db (v2)
INDEXER_DB_CONNECTION_STRING="Server=localhost;Port=5432;Database=postgres;User Id=postgres;Password=postgres;"

# The websocket url of the blokchain-indexer (v1). Used solely as trigger for the updater (on new block).
INDEXER_WS_URL=wss://rpc.helsinki.aboutcircles.com/indexer

# The path used by the updater to write the binary dump
INTERNAL_CAPACITY_GRAPH_PATH=/pathfinder-db/db.bin

# The path used by the pathfinder2 to read the binary dump (used in the load_safes_binary rpc call)
EXTERNAL_CAPACITY_GRAPH_PATH=/pathfinder-db/db.bin

# The url of the pathfinder2 instance
PATHFINDER_RPC_URL=http://localhost:8080
```

_Note: The internal and external paths are used to share the binary dump between the two services.
Each service can have the pathfinder-db volume mounted to a different location so its necessary to specify
the path used by the updater and the path used by the pathfinder2. In this example they are mounted to the same
locations._

### Start the environment

On first start, it pulls the pathfinder2 image and builds the pathfinder2-updater image from source.

```shell
docker-compose up
```

### Use as command line utility

Alternatively, you can use the updater as a command line utility.
This allows you to dump the index db data to a file and load it into the pathfinder2 instance manually.

```shell
# Build the image
docker build -f ExportUtil.Dockerfile -t pathfinder2-export-util:latest .

# ########################################### # 
# Define your out path and connection string  #
# ########################################### #
OUTPUT_DIR="/home/user"
OUTPUT_FILENAME="pathfinder-db.bin"
INDEXER_DB_CONNECTION_STRING="Server=localhost;Port=5432;Database=postgres;User Id=postgres;Password=postgres;"
CIRCLES_VERSION="v2"

# Run the ExportUtil to dump the index db data to a file
docker run --rm \
  -v ${OUTPUT_DIR}:/output \
  --network host \
  pathfinder2-export-util:latest \
  "/output/${OUTPUT_FILENAME}" \
  "${INDEXER_DB_CONNECTION_STRING}" \
  "${CIRCLES_VERSION}"
```

You can then use the resulting file (at "${OUTPUT_DIR}/${OUTPUT_FILENAME}") to initialize a pathfinder2 instance:

```shell
curl -X POST \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "id": "timestamp_value",
    "method": "load_safes_binary",
    "params": {
        "file": "/home/user/pathfinder-db.bin"
    }
}' \
  "http://localhost:8080"
```

## File format
The binary file format is described in the [Pathfinder Reloaded](https://hackmd.io/Gg04t7gjQKeDW2Q6Jchp0Q#load_safes_binaryfile-ltpathgt) document.
